Cloud computing, also referred to as “the
cloud,” is the delivery of on-demand computing resources—everything from applications to
data centers—over the internet on a pay-for-use basis. To get a common understanding of cloud computing,
let’s start with the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST’s) definition
of cloud computing. NIST defines cloud computing as a model for
enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing
resources that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort
or service provider interaction. Examples of computing resources include networks,
servers, storage, applications, and services. This cloud model is composed of five essential
characteristics, three deployment models, and three service models. Let’s start with understanding the five
essential characteristics of the cloud—which include on-demand self-service, broad network
access, resource pooling, rapid elasticity, and measured service. On-demand Self-service, the 1st characteristic,
means that you get access to cloud resources such as the processing power, storage, and
network you need, using a simple interface, without requiring human interaction with each
service provider. The 2nd characteristic, Broad Network Access,
means that cloud computing resources can be accessed via the network through standard
mechanisms and platforms such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations. The 3rd characteristic, Resource Pooling,
is what gives cloud providers economies of scale, which they pass on to their customers,
making cloud cost-efficient. Using a multi-tenant model, computing resources
are pooled to serve multiple consumers; cloud resources are dynamically assigned and reassigned,
according to demand, without customers needing to concern themselves with the physical location
of these resources. Rapid Elasticity, the 4th characteristic,
implies that you can access more resources when you need them, and scale back when you
don’t—because resources are elastically provisioned and released. And the 5th characteristic, Measured Service,
means that you only pay for what you use or reserve as you go; if you’re not using resources,
you’re not paying. Resource usage is monitored, measured, and
reported transparently based on utilization. As we see, cloud computing is really about
utilizing technology “as a service”—leveraging remote systems on-demand over the open internet,
scaling up and scaling back, and paying for what you use. It is a revolution in that it has changed
the way the world consumes compute services by making them more cost-efficient while also
making organizations more agile in responding to changes in their markets. 39
00:03:21,380 --> 00:03:27,150
As I mentioned earlier in this talk, the cloud
model is composed of five essential characteristics, three deployment models, and three service
models. We just went over the five essential characteristics. While we will go into greater depth of the
deployment and the service models in the later videos, let me leave you with a brief overview
of these models. There are three types of cloud deployment
models—Public, Private, and Hybrid. Public cloud is when you leverage cloud services
over the open internet on hardware owned by the cloud provider, but its usage is shared
by other companies. Private cloud means that the cloud infrastructure
is provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization. It could run on-premises or it could be owned,
managed, and operated by a service provider. And when you use a mix of both public and
private clouds, working together seamlessly, that is classified as the Hybrid model. Now, let’s look at the three service models
that are based on the three layers in a computing stack - Infrastructure, Platform, and Applications. These cloud computing models are aptly referred
to as Infrastructure as a Service (Iaas), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software
as a Service (SaaS). In an Infrastructure as a Service model, you
get access to infrastructure and physical computing resources such as servers, networking,
storage, and data center space - without the need to manage or operate them. In a Platform as a Service model, you get
access to the platform, that is the hardware and software tools, usually those needed to
develop and deploy applications to users over the Internet. Software as a Service is a software licensing
and delivery model in which software and applications are centrally hosted and licensed on a subscription
basis, and sometimes also referred to as "on-demand software." In the next training, we will go over some of
the key evolutions that brings us to what cloud computing is today.